now we're going to look at a profile I
and while you can do it yourself with at
least two mirrors it's probably easy to
do somebody else as I so what we're
looking at here is still a sphere so
still put on your round circle and now
we're going to look at how the eyelid
sits on this circle this is the area
above the eye in here we have the
eyebrow coming towards us and the eyelid
will be cutting across on a shape like
this the upper lid will be protruding
beyond the lower lid
unless of course names now you get to
see the eyelashes you see a much smaller
portion of the eye and what you are
seeing of the colored portion of the eye
is a convex shape it's no longer
circular do note that the front of the
eye when seen in profile is actually
transparent and the cornea the colored
part of the eye will be situated a
little distance back from that thicker
transparent layer you'll still have your
shading and the corner depending on what
your light source was doing and then
they'll usually be some quite strong
shadows in the section here which will
kind of throw your eye into relief
so if we take the ball
I'm ball away now and we left with the
shape that we're looking at so you'll
see a much smaller portion of the eye
when you're looking at it and profile
don't exaggerate it or make it look
larger than it needs to be in this
section we're going to look at the 3/4
eyes which are slightly more complicated
than the front own eyes or profile it
was also the one that you're probably
going to end up using the most and with
this generally the head is tilted in one
direction but the eyes will be looking
at you and this is going to give a pose
that is more natural and relaxed and
have perhaps a more sense of movement
because you feel at any point the person
could be moving so the different things
to notice about this is that one I will
be closer towards you and will be
slightly larger and the eye that's
further away will be slowly smaller and
the eye that is further away the tear
ducts will be hidden by the bridge of
the nose
so in this case I can't see the owners
right eye I can't see her tear duct and
it's going to make the eyes have a
slightly different shape so we need to
pay attention carefully to see it and
communicate that sense of shape so in
this dark place here now I'm going to
start with the nose the edge of the nose
and the eyebrows and look here now for
what's happening that each of that
eyelid is disappearing and the top of
the eye is straight but now I'm seeing
that curved side on the eyeball this is
quite important that curve as this is
indicating to me the view so the rest of
the island is disappearing behind but
the curve of the eyeball is quite
apparent it curves in there
on the I that's closer to me I can see
and hear that
it's gonna be slightly larger
perspective
in this view it's more easy to see that
the lower letters disappearing that
behind the upper lid and this is the
sense in here I have this eye in here
this was around I threw the shadow can
look for the shape of the white of the
eye to get where the eyeball is same on
this side
usually the eyeball will be partly
hidden at the top and bottom by the lid
it's not very often that you're going to
see the whites of the eyes it's like
reflection on this side
you can see the lashes and profile
putting away now I can see a bit more of
the lid in this case here cooing and
down inside here and this one I can make
more definition in terms of the tear
duct this part here is quite crucial
this little shape just here I mean it's
a three-quarter eye when it comes to
drawing eyes you're going to want to do
as many as possible take every
opportunity here's a hint on how to make
the eyes focus so that they're actually
looking at you on the first example I've
made the eyes too far over at the bottom
here and too far over to the right at
the top I mean when I corrected it you
can see what a difference it's made just
by bringing the eye further over the
color partly I further over up there and
taking it further and down here there
are various trips you can fall into with
making the eyes look unrealistic you
want to avoid trying to make them too
large it's a habit everybody falls into
I still do it occasionally but really
try and assess the width in height of
the eye in relationship to the other
features don't make the whites of the
eyes too white have already mentioned
that it's only found really on young
children real white of the eyes and
particularly when you're painting them
don't make the eyelashes too dark and
only draw the eyelashes that you can see
don't over emphasize them think about
the character of the eye that you're
expressing when a person is smiling the
shape of the eye is going to change
again
have fun